Hello and welcome back.
And today we'll be working with dates.
Dates are very important part of our life as well as part of corporate world expiration dates delivery
dates release dates dates.
There so many data that has to work with dates.
So it's very important to keep track of them and to update them when necessary.
This is why in.
Q Well as long as many other languages there is a specific date they that type so they will be taking
a closer look at that and learning how to use them and when to use them.
So as you can see at PG&E and loaded up.
So let's quickly go up and posit great databases today we'll be working with console games.
So it's loaded up.
Let's load our tables up and we have console dates here.
So first things first let's go ahead and open an inquiry tool and quickly right select all from console
dates.
We'll just do this to refresh our memory about what's inside of the table.
Here we see that we have plug for name first retail availability discontinued units sold in millions
and platform comments.
Basically this table tells us everything about every platform.
It tells us when it first began selling and when it was discontinued if it was not discontinued the
value will be nothing.
And then it also tells us how many units were sold and millions and just some comments for the platform
name in case it's hard for us to understand what D.S. stands for.
So it's a pretty straightforward table that is connected with a console games because they have the
same platform that they're talking about.
Now as you can see if we take a closer look here we can see that the first retail availability and this
continued are both date types of data.
And this is very important because as you can see date data has a very unique way of being written down
and consist of year month and then date.
So all in total it consists of 10 characters including three dashes to separate.
Year for month and month from date.
So let's quickly go ahead and just repeat this after me.
What we want to do is we just want to select all and then we want to write that first retail availability.
And then we want to say minus discontinued and then we're going to write as they's existed.
So if we quickly go and run this.
Sorry about that.
Just make a mistake.
So if we run this what it does it creates as a whole new exist existed column.
And the difference with this way of writing it down instead of altering the table and then setting up
the data is that if we quickly go ahead and run this again and just the show all from consummates we
will see that these column disappeared.
So it's only a temporary column that's helpful to us because we can assess and analyze the way better.
So again if we return to us and now take a look at what it does.
So basically you can see relative minuses here because what we're what we're doing is we're subtracting
this continued date from first retail availability and that's why it's going to be mynahs because the
discontinued follows after the first retail availability.
So working with dates you always want to subtract the earlier date from the following date.
It makes sense but just remember to do that.
So now if we're on the correct version of the squirty you can see that all the minuses disappeared.
And now it makes sense.
The numbers you see here they're all in thousands and there are so many of them it's not years it's
not months it's base by default if you subtract one date from another.
It will give you the difference in number of days that went through.
So this is quite important for us because right now we can go ahead and ask ourselves a question Hey
how long did the platform existed on the market and we can say it was available for retail for four
and five hundred twenty seven days.
Now if we want to go a bit further what we can do is we can then put brackets around this expression
and then we can divide everything here by 365.
What this will do it will give us an approximate amount of years.
So it all makes perfect sense doesn't it.
It just is just a basic arithmetic operation that we do.
We basically subtract one from another divide by the number of days in the year and we get a number
of years if we divide this by roughly 30 We'll get the number of months that exist.
This is just a very basic very standardized type of query and this is not the correct way to display
the data in the sense that in.
Q Well you have different functions that will help you to display the difference in data in months these
years more accurately.
But if you just need to run a very very weak query just understand for yourself what's happening in
the here was the differences and all of that stuff.
This is the way you can run it.
And by the way it's always a good thing to practice order by or any other statements that you learn
the scores for example here.
What we can say is that we want to order it.
My days expired and as you can see we can run it all in one equerry sorry.
And as you can see we can run all of this in one query because even though we just created this here
like in the select statement and this is all the same query posed very Eskew will allows us to run it
all together because it makes X and on every line.
So it progresses Khaled's line for line.
So now as you can see we have it neatly organized by days existed and we can say that hey this is the
platform that existed for the least amount of months and this is a platform that existed for the most
amount of months.
So now that we know now that we know the basics and understand that we can work with data quite easily
we can divide them we can multiply them we can subtract and add them.
Let's go ahead and take a look at some functions at some more commonly used and better to use more powerful
functions.
The first one we'll be taking look at is date part.
So what they'd parred does it basically neglects our need to divide here by 30 or 365.
And it gives us a more accurate answer.
So the way to do this let's leave everything here the same.
So so we're still going to get those exist that call them but we're just going to get there a different
way.
So what we want to say is that we want to ride this.
They part and then we want to go ahead with this and and put that we want this to be demonstrated in
years.
So let's go at and change this four years existed just to make it a bit nicer.
And so that we have date Baard year than we just write what we want to go first.
Discontinued and then we want to do the subtraction.
The minus symbol and go again this time what we want to do is we want to go ahead if we get here.
Sorry about that.
So we want to go ahead and write again.
We want us to track them in years wanted them to be displayed in years and then we just need to write
the name of the column first retail with the ability.
So if we were on this
sorry about that to keep making these mistakes so if we're on this as you can see we have and you'd
neatly organize a table that's ordered by year's existed.
But again because we only write that as a statement and not the altar and then sat table this will disappear
as soon as we were on another query on the stables and as it deleted from here or go photo and write
and equerry.
But as you can see this is quite interesting because now we can analyze the data and determine what
is the average span of lifetime for a platform and all of that useful stuff.
Now as you can see this is one way you can do it that way you can divided by 365.
That gives you a less accurate number but it still is relevant.
Now what will happen if we change the part two month and change here to month as well and just let's
quickly rename this two month existence and this kind of order by and change it.
You would expect that this query will return to was number of months that these products platforms existed
but it returns to this weird numbers.
So what do they mean.
Well when you do take part what it does it takes these two dates.
And if you specify they part year it just subtracts one year from another.
So 1994 or other 1998 minus 1994 will be four.
And that's why the child asked for it right now if we take a look at months to minus 12 will be equal
to minus 10.
So it just shows the difference in months but not for the period but more like the position of the month
on the calendar.
So what is the use of date part month part day.
In this scenario.
Well let's quickly go ahead and take a look at the example we need to show all of the games all of the
platforms that were released right before Black Friday.
So they were released in November so people would buy more.
And companies would profit more.
And this is way it or they'd part comes in.
What we do we select all we can just select platform name and from canceled dates then we instead of
ordering by we include the word statement in which we specify that where they part
in months off from the first retail availability.
Minus and November is 11 months so minus 11
equals zero.
So we basically want to say that November minus 11 11 months Lemon has to be zero.
This way if we quickly showed us we can see that the D.S. X3 60 is free for X-Box X-Box 1 all of them
were released in the number.
And now if we specify here that we want to select all we can actually see that is going quickly show
here we can see that all of them were released in November.
How crazy is that.
You can see so much just from this table the table that consists of 30 rows now gives us about 12 rows
of platforms that were all released in the member.
Now let's go ahead and figure out which ones we're least right before Christmas.
There we go.
And that are five.
So out of the 30 platforms most of them were released either in November or December right before the
holidays.
So let's just quickly go here just to demonstrate that a bit more right in or statement than write the
part and just include Black Friday November retail of be bloody.
So we go first retail
retail
ability and then we say that minus 11 has to be equal zero.
And now if we show this we can see how much more exactly how much more we're just going to go select
all count
platform name.
We have 16 platforms out of 30 that were released either in November or December.
That's pretty crazy.
And the worry about the count we will learn it a bit later in the course.
It's very useful operator and that basically gives you.
It counts the number of rows that you had in your table and display the result to you.
So nothing too extraordinary but very useful at times.
So you can see that was pretty crazy but the craziest part about it is we can actually go and do one
more very useful date operator in possibly Asgill there's no date diff function that we can encounter
in other rescue languages.
But there is a date and the mother is an age function.
So basically what we can do is we can get rid of this and just select all and then we will sell and
include age.
And then we want to say between
discontinued
and
firster telling gullability
there's retail ability and just let's put it years alive or rather just
and let's run it and see what it gives to us.
So this is much much much better and cleaner nicer way to display the difference between two dates in
years months and days for it.
So as you can see instead of subtracting a uter from another year and just be done over it or roughly
dividing by 365 by the number of days the year that that can live to some inconsistency in your data
just because if you have 40 years and you divide them by 365 that will not be entirely correct.
So this gives us the most accurate the most nicely presented way.
And then just quickly go had our favorite order by then go here platform alive.
And what we get a band is a nicely neatly organized table.
So don't worry about the nails that you see here basically empty cells.
We will learn to work with them later on.
For now just understand the logic behind this.
Q All chose to last the number of years from in ascending order so the least amount of years on top
the most amount of years gone the bottom.
But because these platforms are not yet discontinued they're still selling.
We cannot ask you cannot identify the exact amount of time they've existed.
Basically what you want to do if you have to do that you want the field is discontinued discontinued
continue call column with current dates and then just subtract.
And that will give you the current lifespan of these platforms.
But we will learn to do all of that later on.
This was a very big lecture and we've learned a lot.
It's very important that you understand how to work dates because again dates are mostly number one
or number to date and narrowing tool because you want to find products that were released between this
year or this year and you want to work with current data and then work with older data archiving data.
You want to work with data prediction and all of that stuff.
It will all include dates in some form or another.
So again we learned today about the age function about the subtraction function.
We're working with data about any algorithmic operators working with states.
We work with that part and understand what that does.
And we also did a lot of order by which is very good because practice practice practice is the one thing
that will make you the best at school.
Plus ask you all any language you can imagine.
I hope you enjoy this lecture and I'll see you in the next one.